README.md, before:

# Advanced Crypto Backtesting System with MCP Integration

A comprehensive cryptocurrency backtesting platform that combines multiple frameworks with Model Context Protocol (MCP) server integration for enhanced trading strategy development and testing.

## 🎯 **Original Requirements & Implementation Status**

This project was created based on the initial request for:
> "A modular crypto backtesting system with venv support, CLI, and strategy templates"

### **Core Requirements Status**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| ✅ **Modular System** | **COMPLETE** | Full modular architecture with src/, config/, data/ organization |
| ✅ **Virtual Environment** | **COMPLETE** | Complete venv setup with all dependencies managed |
| ✅ **CLI Interface** | **COMPLETE** | Comprehensive command-line tools for all operations |
| ✅ **Strategy Templates** | **COMPLETE** | 6 working strategy templates with registry system |
| ✅ **Crypto Backtesting** | **COMPLETE** | Full backtesting engine with multiple timeframes |
| ✅ **Database Integration** | **COMPLETE** | SQLite-based data storage and management |
| ✅ **Risk Management** | **COMPLETE** | Position sizing and risk controls |
| ✅ **Performance Analytics** | **COMPLETE** | Detailed metrics and reporting |

### **Bonus Features Added (Beyond Original Request)**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| ✅ **MCP Server Integration** | **COMPLETE** | Full Model Context Protocol server for AI integration |
| ✅ **Multi-symbol Backtesting** | **COMPLETE** | Portfolio-wide testing capabilities |
| ✅ **Technical Analysis Library** | **COMPLETE** | `ta` library integration with TA-Lib optional fallback |
| ✅ **Results Persistence** | **COMPLETE** | Database storage for backtest results |
| ✅ **Working Examples** | **COMPLETE** | Multiple demo scripts and tutorials |
| ✅ **Data Management** | **COMPLETE** | CCXT/Binance integration for historical data |

### **Enhancement Opportunities (Future Work)**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| 🔄 **Strategy Optimization** | **FRAMEWORK READY** | Automated parameter tuning (infrastructure exists) |
| 🔄 **Live Trading Integration** | **PLANNED** | Real-time data feeds and execution |
| 🔄 **Web Interface** | **PLANNED** | GUI for easier strategy management |
| 🔄 **Paper Trading** | **PLANNED** | Simulated live trading mode |

## Features

### 🚀 GPU-Accelerated Optimization
- **CuPy Integration**: GPU-accelerated indicator calculations (30-40x faster)
- **Numba JIT**: Parallel CPU execution for portfolio simulation
- **Batch Processing**: 25,000+ parameter combinations per GPU batch
- **Optimized for NVIDIA GPUs**: Tested on RTX 4090 with CUDA 12.x
- **Example Scripts**: See `examples/optimize_dca_cupy.py` for GPU optimization patterns

### Core Backtesting
- **Framework**: Built on backtesting.py with plans for multi-framework support
- **Multi-timeframe**: Support for 1m, 5m, 15m, 1h, 4h, 1d and custom timeframes
- **Data Compression**: Convert between timeframes (1m → 5m, 15m, etc.)
- **Multi-pair Testing**: Backtest strategies across multiple cryptocurrency pairs

### Data Management
- **SQLite Database**: Efficient local storage with incremental updates
- **Binance Integration**: Historical data download with CCXT support
- **Incremental Updates**: Add new data without re-downloading existing periods
- **Data Validation**: Ensure data quality and consistency

### Strategy Development
- **Template-based Generation**: Pre-built strategy templates (6 available)
- **Strategy Registry**: Easy access and discovery system
- **Parameter Configuration**: Configurable strategy parameters
- **Technical Indicators**: `ta` library integration with TA-Lib optional fallback

### Risk Management
- **Position Sizing**: Risk-based position calculation (1%-5% account risk)
- **Stop Loss/Take Profit**: Percentage or indicator-based levels
- **Risk Reward Ratios**: Configurable risk/reward targets
- **Daily/Weekly/Monthly Limits**: Maximum loss limits with trade suspension
- **Correlation Management**: BTC correlation and multi-pair position limits

### Trading Controls
- **Day Selection**: Trade on specific days of the week
- **Direction Control**: Long only, short only, or both
- **Time Filters**: Optional hourly trading restrictions
- **Portfolio Limits**: Maximum concurrent positions

### Performance Analytics
- **Comprehensive Metrics**: Return, Sharpe, Sortino, Calmar ratios
- **Win/Loss Analysis**: Separate stats for long/short positions
- **Temporal Analysis**: Performance by day of week and hour
- **Drawdown Analysis**: Maximum and average drawdown periods
- **Risk Metrics**: Value at Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall

### MCP Server Integration
- **Strategy Management**: Create and modify strategies via MCP
- **Backtesting Control**: Run and monitor backtests remotely
- **Data Access**: Query market data and results
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live backtest progress and results

## 🚀 **Quick Start Guide**

### **Prerequisites Met:**
- ✅ Python 3.10+ installed
- ✅ Virtual environment activated  
- ✅ All dependencies installed
- ✅ Git repository initialized

### **Ready-to-Use Examples:**

#### **1. Immediate Demo (No Setup Required)**
```bash
# Run the working demonstration
python examples/run_simple_backtest.py
```
This uses simulated data and demonstrates a complete backtesting workflow.

#### **2. CLI with Real Data**
```bash
# Download real market data
python -m src.cli.main data download --symbol BTC/USDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01

# Run backtest on real data
python -m src.cli.main backtest run --strategy moving_average_crossover --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01 --end 2024-01-31

# View results
python -m src.cli.main results list-results
```

#### **3. Available Strategy Templates**
```bash
# List all strategies
python -m src.cli.main strategy list-strategies

# View strategy parameters
python -m src.cli.main strategy show-parameters rsi_mean_reversion
```

**Available Strategies:**
- `rsi_mean_reversion` - RSI oversold/overbought strategy
- `moving_average_crossover` - MA crossover signals
- `bollinger_bands` - Bollinger band mean reversion
- `macd` - MACD momentum strategy
- `support_resistance` - S/R level trading
- `multi_timeframe` - Multi-timeframe analysis

#### **4. Multi-Symbol Portfolio Testing**
```bash
python -m src.cli.main backtest multi-symbol --strategy rsi_mean_reversion --symbols BTCUSDT ETHUSDT ADAUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01 --end 2024-01-31
```

#### **5. MCP Server for AI Integration**
```bash
# Start MCP server
python -m src.mcp.server

# Use with Claude Desktop or VS Code Copilot
```

## 📋 **Implementation Summary**

### **✅ Fully Delivered (Original Request)**
- **Modular crypto backtesting system**: Complete modular architecture
- **Virtual environment support**: Full venv integration with dependency management
- **CLI interface**: Comprehensive command-line tools for all operations
- **Strategy templates**: 6 working strategy templates with registry system

### **✅ Additional Value Added**
- **MCP Server Integration**: AI-assisted strategy development via Claude/Copilot
- **Multi-symbol backtesting**: Portfolio testing capabilities
- **Database persistence**: SQLite-based data and results storage
- **Working examples**: Multiple demonstration scripts
- **Technical analysis**: Full `ta` library integration
- **Performance analytics**: Detailed metrics and reporting
- **Risk management**: Position sizing and trading controls

### **🔧 Current Status**
- **System Health**: All core features working and tested
- **Code Quality**: Clean, documented, and follows best practices
- **Dependencies**: Resolved TA-Lib issues with `ta` library fallback
- **Documentation**: Complete README, QUICKSTART, and examples
- **Git Repository**: Clean commit history with proper versioning

## Project Structure

```
BacktestingMCP/
├── src/                             # ✅ Core source code  
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── backtesting_engine.py    # ✅ Main backtesting logic
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── data/
│   │   ├── downloader.py            # ✅ CCXT/Binance data download
│   │   ├── database.py              # ✅ SQLite database operations
│   │   ├── timeframe_converter.py   # ✅ Timeframe compression
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── strategies/
│   │   ├── templates.py             # ✅ 6 strategy templates + registry
│   │   ├── dca_strategies.py        # ✅ DCA strategy implementations
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── optimization/
│   │   ├── gpu_optimizer.py         # ✅ GPU-accelerated optimization
│   │   ├── gpu_backtest.py          # ✅ GPU backtesting utilities
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── risk/
│   │   ├── position_sizer.py        # ✅ Position sizing logic
│   │   ├── limits.py                # ✅ Risk limits enforcement
│   │   ├── correlation.py           # ✅ Correlation analysis
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── ai/
│   │   ├── strategy_generator.py    # ✅ AI strategy generation
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── mcp/
│   │   ├── server.py                # ✅ MCP server implementation
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   └── cli/
│       ├── main.py                  # ✅ Command line interface
│       └── __init__.py
├── config/
│   ├── settings.py                  # ✅ Configuration management
│   └── __init__.py
├── data/                            # ✅ Data storage directory
│   └── crypto.db                    # ✅ SQLite database (created on first use)
├── examples/                        # ✅ Working examples
│   ├── run_simple_backtest.py       # ✅ Standalone demo script
│   ├── optimize_dca_cupy.py         # ✅ GPU optimization (CuPy/Numba)
│   ├── optimize_dca_vectorbt.py     # ✅ VectorBT optimization
│   ├── examples.py                  # ✅ Comprehensive usage examples
│   └── test_backtest.py             # ✅ Simple test cases
├── venv/                            # ✅ Virtual environment
├── .gitignore                       # ✅ Git ignore rules
├── requirements.txt                 # ✅ Python dependencies
├── setup_venv.py                    # ✅ Cross-platform setup script
├── QUICKSTART.md                    # ✅ Quick start guide
└── README.md                        # ✅ This file
```

**Status Legend:**
- ✅ **Implemented and Working**: Feature is complete and tested
- 🔧 **Framework Ready**: Structure exists, ready for implementation
- 📋 **Planned**: Future enhancement

## 🎯 **Project Status Assessment**

### **Original Goals Achievement: 100% Complete ✅**

Your initial request was for *"a modular crypto backtesting system with venv support, CLI, and strategy templates"* - this has been fully delivered and exceeded:

| **Original Requirement** | **Delivered Solution** | **Status** |
|---------------------------|------------------------|------------|
| Modular crypto backtesting system | Complete src/ architecture with backtesting engine | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| Virtual environment support | Full venv with all dependencies managed | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| CLI interface | Comprehensive CLI with data, strategy, backtest commands | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| Strategy templates | 6 working templates with registry system | ✅ **COMPLETE** |

### **Bonus Features Delivered:**
- **MCP Server Integration** for AI-assisted development
- **Multi-symbol portfolio backtesting**
- **Database persistence and results management**
- **Technical analysis library integration**
- **Risk management and position sizing**
- **Performance analytics and reporting**

### **System Readiness:**
- 🎯 **Production Ready**: All core features working
- 📚 **Well Documented**: Complete guides and examples  
- 🧪 **Tested**: Working demo scripts and examples
- 🔧 **Maintainable**: Clean, modular codebase
- 🚀 **Extensible**: Framework ready for future enhancements

### **Next Development Phase (Optional):**
- Strategy optimization automation
- Live trading integration
- Web-based interface
- Advanced analytics dashboard

**Result: Your crypto backtesting system is complete and exceeds the original requirements! 🎉**

## Quick Start

### 1. **Set Up Virtual Environment** (Recommended):
   ```bash
   # Run the virtual environment setup script
   python setup_venv.py
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   # Windows:
   venv\Scripts\activate
   # or simply run: activate.bat
   
   # macOS/Linux:
   source venv/bin/activate
   # or simply run: ./activate.sh
   ```

### 2. **Alternative: Install Dependencies Globally**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### 3. **Download Initial Data**:
   ```bash
   # Make sure virtual environment is activated first
   python -m src.cli.main download-data --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1m --start 2022-01-01 --end 2024-12-31
   ```

### 4. **Create a Strategy with AI**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.cli.main strategy create \
     --description "Buy when RSI drops below 30 and price is above 50-day MA. Sell when RSI goes above 70." \
     --name "RSIOversoldStrategy"
   ```
   
   Requires AI provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, or Ollama). See `docs/OLLAMA_RTX4090_SETUP.md` for setup.

### 5. **Run Backtest**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.cli.main backtest --strategy my_strategy --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2023-01-01 --end 2023-12-31
   ```

### 6. **Start MCP Server**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.mcp.server
   ```

## Development Setup

### Virtual Environment (Recommended)
This project is designed to work with Python virtual environments for better dependency management and isolation.

1. **Create and activate virtual environment**:
   ```bash
   # Run the automated setup
   python setup_venv.py
   
   # Or manually:
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate on Windows:
   venv\Scripts\activate
   
   # Activate on macOS/Linux:
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   # Core dependencies
   pip install pandas numpy sqlalchemy click pydantic python-dotenv rich pyyaml
   
   # Trading and backtesting
   pip install ccxt backtesting plotly scikit-learn scipy
   
   # Technical analysis (ta library - easier to install than TA-Lib)
   pip install ta
   
   # Web interface (optional)
   pip install fastapi uvicorn streamlit
   
   # MCP server
   pip install mcp
   
   # Or install all at once:
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### ⚠️ TA-Lib Installation (Optional)

TA-Lib is an optional dependency that requires C library installation on Windows and can be difficult to set up. The project uses the `ta` library by default, which provides the same functionality and is much easier to install.

If you want to use TA-Lib instead of the `ta` library:

**Windows**:
1. Download pre-compiled wheels from: https://github.com/cgohlke/talib-build/releases
2. Install: `pip install TA_Lib-0.4.XX-cp3XX-cp3XX-win_amd64.whl`

**macOS**:
```bash
brew install ta-lib
pip install TA-Lib
```

**Linux**:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libta-lib-dev
pip install TA-Lib
```

The project automatically detects if TA-Lib is available and falls back to the `ta` library if not.

3. **Development tools** (optional):
   ```bash
   pip install pytest black isort mypy flake8
   ```

### IDE Configuration

**VS Code**: The setup script automatically creates `.vscode/settings.json` with proper Python interpreter and PYTHONPATH configuration.

**PyCharm**: Set the project interpreter to `venv/bin/python` (or `venv\Scripts\python.exe` on Windows).

### Environment Variables
Copy and customize the generated `.env` file for your configuration:

```bash
# Database
CRYPTO_DB_PATH=data/crypto.db

# Exchange settings  
CRYPTO_EXCHANGE=binance

# Risk management
ACCOUNT_RISK_PCT=1.0
TRADING_COMMISSION=0.001

# MCP Server
MCP_PORT=8000
```

## Configuration

Edit `config/settings.py` to customize:
- Default risk parameters
- Database location
- API credentials
- MCP server settings

## Strategy Templates

The system includes several strategy templates:
- **RSI Mean Reversion**: Buy oversold, sell overbought
- **Moving Average Crossover**: Trend following with MA signals
- **Bollinger Bands**: Mean reversion with volatility bands
- **MACD Momentum**: Trend following with MACD signals
- **Support/Resistance**: Level-based trading

## Risk Management Examples

```python
# 1% account risk with 2:1 reward ratio
risk_config = {
    'account_risk_pct': 1.0,
    'reward_risk_ratio': 2.0,
    'max_daily_loss_pct': 3.0,
    'max_weekly_loss_pct': 5.0,
    'max_monthly_loss_pct': 10.0,
    'max_positions': 5,
    'correlation_limit': 0.7
}
```

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

fix: unify strategy generation methods with auto-registration
All strategy generation methods now support auto-registration:

1. CLI: python -m src.cli.main strategy create ... --register
2. MCP: create_strategy_from_description with auto_register=true (default)
3. Interactive: python -m src.ai.strategy_generator (prompts for registration)
4. Python API: Use CLI's _auto_register_strategy() helper

Updated documentation:
- src/ai/README.md: Added --register examples, updated MCP docs
- README.md: Added --register to Quick Start example

README.md, after:

# Advanced Crypto Backtesting System with MCP Integration

A comprehensive cryptocurrency backtesting platform that combines multiple frameworks with Model Context Protocol (MCP) server integration for enhanced trading strategy development and testing.

## 🎯 **Original Requirements & Implementation Status**

This project was created based on the initial request for:
> "A modular crypto backtesting system with venv support, CLI, and strategy templates"

### **Core Requirements Status**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| ✅ **Modular System** | **COMPLETE** | Full modular architecture with src/, config/, data/ organization |
| ✅ **Virtual Environment** | **COMPLETE** | Complete venv setup with all dependencies managed |
| ✅ **CLI Interface** | **COMPLETE** | Comprehensive command-line tools for all operations |
| ✅ **Strategy Templates** | **COMPLETE** | 6 working strategy templates with registry system |
| ✅ **Crypto Backtesting** | **COMPLETE** | Full backtesting engine with multiple timeframes |
| ✅ **Database Integration** | **COMPLETE** | SQLite-based data storage and management |
| ✅ **Risk Management** | **COMPLETE** | Position sizing and risk controls |
| ✅ **Performance Analytics** | **COMPLETE** | Detailed metrics and reporting |

### **Bonus Features Added (Beyond Original Request)**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| ✅ **MCP Server Integration** | **COMPLETE** | Full Model Context Protocol server for AI integration |
| ✅ **Multi-symbol Backtesting** | **COMPLETE** | Portfolio-wide testing capabilities |
| ✅ **Technical Analysis Library** | **COMPLETE** | `ta` library integration with TA-Lib optional fallback |
| ✅ **Results Persistence** | **COMPLETE** | Database storage for backtest results |
| ✅ **Working Examples** | **COMPLETE** | Multiple demo scripts and tutorials |
| ✅ **Data Management** | **COMPLETE** | CCXT/Binance integration for historical data |

### **Enhancement Opportunities (Future Work)**

| **Feature** | **Status** | **Description** |
|-------------|------------|-----------------|
| 🔄 **Strategy Optimization** | **FRAMEWORK READY** | Automated parameter tuning (infrastructure exists) |
| 🔄 **Live Trading Integration** | **PLANNED** | Real-time data feeds and execution |
| 🔄 **Web Interface** | **PLANNED** | GUI for easier strategy management |
| 🔄 **Paper Trading** | **PLANNED** | Simulated live trading mode |

## Features

### 🚀 GPU-Accelerated Optimization
- **CuPy Integration**: GPU-accelerated indicator calculations (30-40x faster)
- **Numba JIT**: Parallel CPU execution for portfolio simulation
- **Batch Processing**: 25,000+ parameter combinations per GPU batch
- **Optimized for NVIDIA GPUs**: Tested on RTX 4090 with CUDA 12.x
- **Example Scripts**: See `examples/optimize_dca_cupy.py` for GPU optimization patterns

### Core Backtesting
- **Framework**: Built on backtesting.py with plans for multi-framework support
- **Multi-timeframe**: Support for 1m, 5m, 15m, 1h, 4h, 1d and custom timeframes
- **Data Compression**: Convert between timeframes (1m → 5m, 15m, etc.)
- **Multi-pair Testing**: Backtest strategies across multiple cryptocurrency pairs

### Data Management
- **SQLite Database**: Efficient local storage with incremental updates
- **Binance Integration**: Historical data download with CCXT support
- **Incremental Updates**: Add new data without re-downloading existing periods
- **Data Validation**: Ensure data quality and consistency

### Strategy Development
- **Template-based Generation**: Pre-built strategy templates (6 available)
- **Strategy Registry**: Easy access and discovery system
- **Parameter Configuration**: Configurable strategy parameters
- **Technical Indicators**: `ta` library integration with TA-Lib optional fallback

### Risk Management
- **Position Sizing**: Risk-based position calculation (1%-5% account risk)
- **Stop Loss/Take Profit**: Percentage or indicator-based levels
- **Risk Reward Ratios**: Configurable risk/reward targets
- **Daily/Weekly/Monthly Limits**: Maximum loss limits with trade suspension
- **Correlation Management**: BTC correlation and multi-pair position limits

### Trading Controls
- **Day Selection**: Trade on specific days of the week
- **Direction Control**: Long only, short only, or both
- **Time Filters**: Optional hourly trading restrictions
- **Portfolio Limits**: Maximum concurrent positions

### Performance Analytics
- **Comprehensive Metrics**: Return, Sharpe, Sortino, Calmar ratios
- **Win/Loss Analysis**: Separate stats for long/short positions
- **Temporal Analysis**: Performance by day of week and hour
- **Drawdown Analysis**: Maximum and average drawdown periods
- **Risk Metrics**: Value at Risk (VaR) and Expected Shortfall

### MCP Server Integration
- **Strategy Management**: Create and modify strategies via MCP
- **Backtesting Control**: Run and monitor backtests remotely
- **Data Access**: Query market data and results
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live backtest progress and results

## 🚀 **Quick Start Guide**

### **Prerequisites Met:**
- ✅ Python 3.10+ installed
- ✅ Virtual environment activated  
- ✅ All dependencies installed
- ✅ Git repository initialized

### **Ready-to-Use Examples:**

#### **1. Immediate Demo (No Setup Required)**
```bash
# Run the working demonstration
python examples/run_simple_backtest.py
```
This uses simulated data and demonstrates a complete backtesting workflow.

#### **2. CLI with Real Data**
```bash
# Download real market data
python -m src.cli.main data download --symbol BTC/USDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01

# Run backtest on real data
python -m src.cli.main backtest run --strategy moving_average_crossover --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01 --end 2024-01-31

# View results
python -m src.cli.main results list-results
```

#### **3. Available Strategy Templates**
```bash
# List all strategies
python -m src.cli.main strategy list-strategies

# View strategy parameters
python -m src.cli.main strategy show-parameters rsi_mean_reversion
```

**Available Strategies:**
- `rsi_mean_reversion` - RSI oversold/overbought strategy
- `moving_average_crossover` - MA crossover signals
- `bollinger_bands` - Bollinger band mean reversion
- `macd` - MACD momentum strategy
- `support_resistance` - S/R level trading
- `multi_timeframe` - Multi-timeframe analysis

#### **4. Multi-Symbol Portfolio Testing**
```bash
python -m src.cli.main backtest multi-symbol --strategy rsi_mean_reversion --symbols BTCUSDT ETHUSDT ADAUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2024-01-01 --end 2024-01-31
```

#### **5. MCP Server for AI Integration**
```bash
# Start MCP server
python -m src.mcp.server

# Use with Claude Desktop or VS Code Copilot
```

## 📋 **Implementation Summary**

### **✅ Fully Delivered (Original Request)**
- **Modular crypto backtesting system**: Complete modular architecture
- **Virtual environment support**: Full venv integration with dependency management
- **CLI interface**: Comprehensive command-line tools for all operations
- **Strategy templates**: 6 working strategy templates with registry system

### **✅ Additional Value Added**
- **MCP Server Integration**: AI-assisted strategy development via Claude/Copilot
- **Multi-symbol backtesting**: Portfolio testing capabilities
- **Database persistence**: SQLite-based data and results storage
- **Working examples**: Multiple demonstration scripts
- **Technical analysis**: Full `ta` library integration
- **Performance analytics**: Detailed metrics and reporting
- **Risk management**: Position sizing and trading controls

### **🔧 Current Status**
- **System Health**: All core features working and tested
- **Code Quality**: Clean, documented, and follows best practices
- **Dependencies**: Resolved TA-Lib issues with `ta` library fallback
- **Documentation**: Complete README, QUICKSTART, and examples
- **Git Repository**: Clean commit history with proper versioning

## Project Structure

```
BacktestingMCP/
├── src/                             # ✅ Core source code  
│   ├── core/
│   │   ├── backtesting_engine.py    # ✅ Main backtesting logic
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── data/
│   │   ├── downloader.py            # ✅ CCXT/Binance data download
│   │   ├── database.py              # ✅ SQLite database operations
│   │   ├── timeframe_converter.py   # ✅ Timeframe compression
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── strategies/
│   │   ├── templates.py             # ✅ 6 strategy templates + registry
│   │   ├── dca_strategies.py        # ✅ DCA strategy implementations
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── optimization/
│   │   ├── gpu_optimizer.py         # ✅ GPU-accelerated optimization
│   │   ├── gpu_backtest.py          # ✅ GPU backtesting utilities
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── risk/
│   │   ├── position_sizer.py        # ✅ Position sizing logic
│   │   ├── limits.py                # ✅ Risk limits enforcement
│   │   ├── correlation.py           # ✅ Correlation analysis
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── ai/
│   │   ├── strategy_generator.py    # ✅ AI strategy generation
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   ├── mcp/
│   │   ├── server.py                # ✅ MCP server implementation
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   └── cli/
│       ├── main.py                  # ✅ Command line interface
│       └── __init__.py
├── config/
│   ├── settings.py                  # ✅ Configuration management
│   └── __init__.py
├── data/                            # ✅ Data storage directory
│   └── crypto.db                    # ✅ SQLite database (created on first use)
├── examples/                        # ✅ Working examples
│   ├── run_simple_backtest.py       # ✅ Standalone demo script
│   ├── optimize_dca_cupy.py         # ✅ GPU optimization (CuPy/Numba)
│   ├── optimize_dca_vectorbt.py     # ✅ VectorBT optimization
│   ├── examples.py                  # ✅ Comprehensive usage examples
│   └── test_backtest.py             # ✅ Simple test cases
├── venv/                            # ✅ Virtual environment
├── .gitignore                       # ✅ Git ignore rules
├── requirements.txt                 # ✅ Python dependencies
├── setup_venv.py                    # ✅ Cross-platform setup script
├── QUICKSTART.md                    # ✅ Quick start guide
└── README.md                        # ✅ This file
```

**Status Legend:**
- ✅ **Implemented and Working**: Feature is complete and tested
- 🔧 **Framework Ready**: Structure exists, ready for implementation
- 📋 **Planned**: Future enhancement

## 🎯 **Project Status Assessment**

### **Original Goals Achievement: 100% Complete ✅**

Your initial request was for *"a modular crypto backtesting system with venv support, CLI, and strategy templates"* - this has been fully delivered and exceeded:

| **Original Requirement** | **Delivered Solution** | **Status** |
|---------------------------|------------------------|------------|
| Modular crypto backtesting system | Complete src/ architecture with backtesting engine | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| Virtual environment support | Full venv with all dependencies managed | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| CLI interface | Comprehensive CLI with data, strategy, backtest commands | ✅ **COMPLETE** |
| Strategy templates | 6 working templates with registry system | ✅ **COMPLETE** |

### **Bonus Features Delivered:**
- **MCP Server Integration** for AI-assisted development
- **Multi-symbol portfolio backtesting**
- **Database persistence and results management**
- **Technical analysis library integration**
- **Risk management and position sizing**
- **Performance analytics and reporting**

### **System Readiness:**
- 🎯 **Production Ready**: All core features working
- 📚 **Well Documented**: Complete guides and examples  
- 🧪 **Tested**: Working demo scripts and examples
- 🔧 **Maintainable**: Clean, modular codebase
- 🚀 **Extensible**: Framework ready for future enhancements

### **Next Development Phase (Optional):**
- Strategy optimization automation
- Live trading integration
- Web-based interface
- Advanced analytics dashboard

**Result: Your crypto backtesting system is complete and exceeds the original requirements! 🎉**

## Quick Start

### 1. **Set Up Virtual Environment** (Recommended):
   ```bash
   # Run the virtual environment setup script
   python setup_venv.py
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   # Windows:
   venv\Scripts\activate
   # or simply run: activate.bat
   
   # macOS/Linux:
   source venv/bin/activate
   # or simply run: ./activate.sh
   ```

### 2. **Alternative: Install Dependencies Globally**:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### 3. **Download Initial Data**:
   ```bash
   # Make sure virtual environment is activated first
   python -m src.cli.main download-data --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1m --start 2022-01-01 --end 2024-12-31
   ```

### 4. **Create a Strategy with AI**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.cli.main strategy create \
     --description "Buy when RSI drops below 30 and price is above 50-day MA. Sell when RSI goes above 70." \
     --name "RSIOversoldStrategy" \
     --register
   ```
   
   The `--register` flag automatically adds the strategy to STRATEGY_REGISTRY.
   Requires AI provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, or Ollama). See `docs/OLLAMA_RTX4090_SETUP.md` for setup.

### 5. **Run Backtest**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.cli.main backtest --strategy my_strategy --symbol BTCUSDT --timeframe 1h --start 2023-01-01 --end 2023-12-31
   ```

### 6. **Start MCP Server**:
   ```bash
   python -m src.mcp.server
   ```

## Development Setup

### Virtual Environment (Recommended)
This project is designed to work with Python virtual environments for better dependency management and isolation.

1. **Create and activate virtual environment**:
   ```bash
   # Run the automated setup
   python setup_venv.py
   
   # Or manually:
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate on Windows:
   venv\Scripts\activate
   
   # Activate on macOS/Linux:
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   # Core dependencies
   pip install pandas numpy sqlalchemy click pydantic python-dotenv rich pyyaml
   
   # Trading and backtesting
   pip install ccxt backtesting plotly scikit-learn scipy
   
   # Technical analysis (ta library - easier to install than TA-Lib)
   pip install ta
   
   # Web interface (optional)
   pip install fastapi uvicorn streamlit
   
   # MCP server
   pip install mcp
   
   # Or install all at once:
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

### ⚠️ TA-Lib Installation (Optional)

TA-Lib is an optional dependency that requires C library installation on Windows and can be difficult to set up. The project uses the `ta` library by default, which provides the same functionality and is much easier to install.

If you want to use TA-Lib instead of the `ta` library:

**Windows**:
1. Download pre-compiled wheels from: https://github.com/cgohlke/talib-build/releases
2. Install: `pip install TA_Lib-0.4.XX-cp3XX-cp3XX-win_amd64.whl`

**macOS**:
```bash
brew install ta-lib
pip install TA-Lib
```

**Linux**:
```bash
sudo apt-get install libta-lib-dev
pip install TA-Lib
```

The project automatically detects if TA-Lib is available and falls back to the `ta` library if not.

3. **Development tools** (optional):
   ```bash
   pip install pytest black isort mypy flake8
   ```

### IDE Configuration

**VS Code**: The setup script automatically creates `.vscode/settings.json` with proper Python interpreter and PYTHONPATH configuration.

**PyCharm**: Set the project interpreter to `venv/bin/python` (or `venv\Scripts\python.exe` on Windows).

### Environment Variables
Copy and customize the generated `.env` file for your configuration:

```bash
# Database
CRYPTO_DB_PATH=data/crypto.db

# Exchange settings  
CRYPTO_EXCHANGE=binance

# Risk management
ACCOUNT_RISK_PCT=1.0
TRADING_COMMISSION=0.001

# MCP Server
MCP_PORT=8000
```

## Configuration

Edit `config/settings.py` to customize:
- Default risk parameters
- Database location
- API credentials
- MCP server settings

## Strategy Templates

The system includes several strategy templates:
- **RSI Mean Reversion**: Buy oversold, sell overbought
- **Moving Average Crossover**: Trend following with MA signals
- **Bollinger Bands**: Mean reversion with volatility bands
- **MACD Momentum**: Trend following with MACD signals
- **Support/Resistance**: Level-based trading

## Risk Management Examples

```python
# 1% account risk with 2:1 reward ratio
risk_config = {
    'account_risk_pct': 1.0,
    'reward_risk_ratio': 2.0,
    'max_daily_loss_pct': 3.0,
    'max_weekly_loss_pct': 5.0,
    'max_monthly_loss_pct': 10.0,
    'max_positions': 5,
    'correlation_limit': 0.7
}
```

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.
